.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH NBC 1 "September  21, 2009"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.SH NAME
nbc \- Compiler for LEGO Mindstorms NXT
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B nbc
.RI [ options ] " file " [options]
.SH DESCRIPTION
This manual page documents briefly the
.B nbc
command.
.PP
.\" TeX users may be more comfortable with the \fB<whatever>\fP and
.\" \fI<whatever>\fP escape sequences to invode bold face and italics,
.\" respectively.
\fBnbc\fP is a program that compiles Not eXactly C (NXC) files 
or NeXT Byte Code (NBC) files into programs that can run on the standard
LEGO MINDSTORMS NXT firmware or the enhanced NBC/NXC firmware. The nbc 
compiler can either save the compiler output to a file or upload
it to a LEGO Mindstorms NXT for execution.  The compiler can also
compile NXT Picture files (.ric) using the text-based RICScript 
language.  Since nbc can compile different programming languages it
uses the file extension to determine the type of code it is compiling.
NXC programs should use the .nxc file extension, NBC programs should 
use the .nbc file extension, and RICScript programs should use the .rs 
file extension.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-S=<portname>
specify port name (COMn or usb), resource name, or alias
.TP
.B \-d
download program
.TP
.B \-b
treat input file as a binary file (don't compile it)
.TP
.B \-q
quiet mode
.TP
.B \-n
prevent the system file from being included
.TP
.B \-D=<sym>[=<value>]
define macro <sym>
.TP
.B \-x
decompile program
.TP
.B \-Z[1|2]
turn on compiler optimizations
.TP
.B \-ER=n
set maximum errors before aborting (0 == no limit)
.TP
.B \-PD=n
set max preprocessor recursion depth (default == 10)
.TP
.B \-O=<filename>
specify output file
.TP
.B \-E=<filename>
 write compiler errors to <filename>
.TP
.B \-I=<path>
search <path> for include files
.TP
.B \-nbc=<filename>
save NXC intermediate NBC code to <filename>
.TP
.B \-L=<filename>
generate code listing to <filename>
.TP
.B \-Y=<filename>
generate symbol table to <filename>
.TP
.B \-w[-|+]
warnings off or on [default is on]
.TP
.B \-sm[-|+]
compiler status messages off or on [default is on]
.TP
.B \-EF
enhanced firmware
.TP
.B \-safecall
NXC will wrap all function calls in Acquire/Release
.TP
.B \-api
dump the API to stdout
.TP
.B \-v=n
set the targeted firmware version (default == 128, NXT 1.1 == 105)
.TP
.B \-help
display command line options
.SH AUTHOR
nbc was written by John Hansen.
.PP
This manual page was written by Sebastian Reichel <elektranox@gmail.com>,
for the Debian project (but may be used by others).
